Automation is a key concern
in the security profession.
For example, it would
be difficult to
monitor each individual
attempt to access the system.
For this reason, it's
helpful to automate
the security controls
put in place to keep
malicious actors
out of the system.
And it's also helpful to automate
the detection of
unusual activity.
Python is great for automation.
Let's explore three
specific examples of this.
First, imagine you're
a security analyst for
a health care
company that stores
confidential patient records
in a database server.
Your company wants to implement
additional controls to
protect this information.
In order to enhance the
security of the records,
you decide to implement a
timeout policy that locks out
a user if they spent
more than three minutes
logging into the database.
This is because
it's possible that
if a user is spending
too much time,
it could be that they are
guessing the password.
To do this, you can use
Python to identify when
a user has entered
a username and start tracking
the time until this user
enters the correct password.
Now, let's cover a
different example.
This time, imagine you are
a security analyst
working at a law firm.
There have recently been
some ongoing security
attacks where
threat actors hack into
employee accounts and attempt
to steal client information.
They then threaten to
use this maliciously.
So the security team
is working to target
all security
vulnerabilities that allow
these attackers to break into
the company's databases.
You personally are
responsible for
tracking all user logins
by checking their
login timestamp,
IP address, and
location of login.
For example, if a user
logs in during the early
hours of the morning,
they should be flagged.
Also, if they are
logging in from
a location that's not one
of the two established
work zones,
you must flag their account.
Finally, if a user is
simultaneously logged in from
two different IP addresses,
you must flag their account.
Python can help you
keep track of and
analyze all of this
different login information.
Let's consider one
final example.
Imagine you are a
security analyst
working at a large organization.
Recently, this organization
has increased security measures
to make sure all
customer-facing applications
are better protected.
Since there is a password to
access these applications,
they want to monitor
all password login attempts
for suspicious activity.
One sign of suspicious
activity is having
several failed login attempts
within a short amount of time.
You need to flag
users if they had
more than three login failures
in the last 30 minutes.
One way you could do this
in Python is by parsing
a static txt log file with
all user login attempts
to each machine.
Python could structure the
information in this file,
including the
username, IP address,
timestamp, and login status.
It could then use
conditionals to
determine if a user
needs to be flagged.
These are just a
few examples of how
a security analyst might
apply Python in their
day-to-day work.
I hope you are as
excited as I am
to create solutions
for security problems.